AI is more profound for civilization than fire or electricity. And we're in a period of time where so much is changing in search. Like I don't know how anybody keeps up. >> I think that you are separate from a lot of these other AI gurus. Seems like everyone's kind of an AI expert at this point. >> 2022 Danny Sullivan from Google reached out to me and a few others and said, "We're going to do this new thing with our algorithms. Could we talk to you about it?" My biggest peeve about SEO today is that a lot of what we do in the name of SEO is trying to rank for these like old systems that don't even exist anymore. But I think that the people who know how to use AI will have such huge advantage over those who do not. >> If anyone's an AI expert, it's probably you. What is your message to the audience? What do you want to tell people? What is your advice? What what do they need to know? >> How would it really work to find joy in the time that we're in? Because [Music] Hey there, my name is Danny Librand and welcome back to Local Marketing Secrets. Today I'm joined by Marie Haynes, one of the top names in SEO and AI search. Marie is the founder of Marie Hannes Consulting and she spent more than a decade studying Google's algorithms, um, site quality, EAT, and recovery from major traffic drops. She's spoken at the biggest SEO conferences in the world, published some of the most influential research on how Google evaluates content, and helped countless brands understand what's really happening inside modern search. In this episode, we d we dig into how AI is reshaping Google, what's driving rankings right now, why so many sites have struggled in recent updates, and what businesses need to do to win in 2026 and beyond. Now, without further ado, Marie, welcome to the show. >> Thanks for having me. Always fun to talk about Google, >> of course. So, Marie, like I was telling you before the show, I have so much respect for you and I'm like a I'd say like a personal fan of yours. I'm on your email list. I listen to a lot of podcasts of yours. I've seen you on a lot of other podcasts and I think that >> you are separate from a lot of these other I guess you could say like AI gurus. Seems like everyone's kind of an AI expert at this point. It seems like you if anyone's an AI expert, it's probably you. And even just before this podcast, you said that you were vibe coding and um some kind of software, which we can get into later in the show. But regardless, I I just wanted to say that that um you know, I really respect you. I'm glad to have you here. >> Oh, thank you so much. I mean, it it kind of floores me that uh anybody that I have any recognition because all I'm doing is just trying to learn uh as much as I can about Google and and share it. And I think even you doing this podcast, this is how you become known, right? is you you learn from others and then you share it with people and uh and then that builds the knowledge in your head and uh so you're doing a great thing for yourself and for your own eat as well. So or EA. Yeah. Yeah. >> Exactly. Thank you. Um so tell me how did this all get started for you? How how did you become like this this big name in SEO and AI? >> It's kind of a wild story because I was a veterinarian. I don't know if if you knew that. Uh and so and I loved my job. I I really enjoyed especially the diagnostics and the surgery. Um, one of my clients was the the pets for the prime minister of Canada. Um, I actually saw his daughter's hamster, which was very unfair because you can't do a whole lot with hamsters, but still kind of a cool story. And then just as a hobby on the side, I was interested in what Google was doing. And uh, so it was a hobby at first, just trying to understand like why would Google make this website rank higher than this website? like why am I seeing this website? And then in 2012, so I started doing that in 2008. In 2012, uh I was pregnant and uh was on bed rest. And honestly, like I think when when frustrating things happen in life, it's for a reason because then I had all this time to just do whatever. I was sitting there with a laptop with nothing to do. And at that time, I I'm going to I'm going to quiz you here. You you may not know this. Most people I ask don't know this. What happened in 2012 that was huge for the SEO industry? >> Uh, was that Penguin? >> Yes, you got it. You got it. Yeah. Very good. Oh, do you know the day? I would be like super impressed. >> Oh, was it May? >> Close. >> I don't know. >> April 24th, 2012. >> Okay. >> We launched this Penguin algorithm and nobody knew what it was about. like we didn't even like now today we can look back and say it was all mostly about links really about web spam um but I had all this time to just chat in forums and and learn about it and then one guy came to me and said I have a manual action from Google not the same thing as Penguin but related and he said could I pay you to remove it and I said well no I'm a I'm a veterinarian I'm not a marketer like I don't do this professionally and he said oh I'll pay you $300 if you succeed and so It just was a fun challenge for me. I removed his it was an unnatural links penalty. U and then I had more people come to me. Uh so then I wrote a little book about how you know what process I used. And uh there's another key for eat is write a book and then you can be like I'm the one who wrote the book on uh you know if you ask chatbt today about me one of the first things it'll say is that I I remove penalties which like I haven't done a penalty removal in some time. Um, but it's because I wrote the book on it. So, uh, and then I just, um, all of my >> clients, the people that I removed penalties for, wanted to know, well, how do we do things that are in line with Google's guidelines? So, I started a little newsletter back in 2012 on uh, you know, here's what Google said on this and here's what this person did this case study and and uh, and then it's grown. Uh, you know, I've done that throughout the years. So, and then uh after that, you know, my business grew tremendously. I had a a long waiting list doing site reviews. Um so, I hired a team and and that was a fantastic fun time in my career. Um but I realized that my uh gifting is not in running a business. Plus, the pandemic made running a business very difficult. Uh and so then I returned to solo consulting just in time for this new AI stuff to come out. um 2022, Danny Sullivan from Google reached out to me and a few others, Glenn Gabe, Lily Ray, and said, "We're going to do this new thing with our algorithms. Could we talk to you about it?" Which was wild. And it turns out, so that was the helpful content system. And when I saw that it was what they called a machine learning system, which I didn't even know at the time if machine learning was the same as AI, it is. uh I realized I needed to know more about machine learning. So since 2022, I've I've essentially been learning everything I can about AI and then I have now a very small handful of clients uh that we brainstorm on AI on agents on where the future is headed uh and then what we can do today with AI search as well. So, kind of a a fun thing. And I get to I'm I'm in this room above my garage where I just get to spend all day learning and playing with things and doing stuff like this, talking to you. >> Yeah. Awesome. That is crazy that Danny Sullivan reached out to you personally and along with some other people. For people that don't know, Danny Sullivan is a really really big deal in SEO and now now he's like I forget his position at Google, but he's >> well he was the Google search liaison and then he's moved on to another position somewhere uh and they don't have a search leaison which I think is kind of crazy that um there you know how many businesses are there in the world that rely on Google >> and then they come to people like you and me and it's our job to translate what's happening but all of us are just we're all making it up. Like I mean I'm not saying that we're um you know doing it maliciously or anything, but we're all trying to do our best at understanding what's happening. And we're in a period of time where so much is changing in search. Like I don't know how anybody keeps up. >> So uh I kind of wish Google would do more in terms of um communicating with business owners and with with SEOs or whatever we want to call us these days. Uh but um but yeah, so uh so I think there are just a small handful of people that are brave enough to um go forward and say like here's what we're doing, here's what we're trying, here's what we're having success with. Um but it's a it's a very strange place to be where like I said, every business needs to be represented on Google. Uh and there's very little guidance as to how to do that. M so throughout your history of search, you've been in this for, you know, around I think around 16 years or so. You've seen all these major Google updates. What would you say is the most the biggest and most impactful one? >> Oh, that's a that's a good question. It's one that um isn't actually documented I would say is uh it was February of 2017 and I had a client at the time who I was doing a site review for and I noticed that so when I do site reviews I look at um here's what Google started to elevate over you and then we try to find the patterns um you know do they have more links do they have like for a long time it it was links and there was a super obvious pattern is that um their content all the content that did poorly was what we today would recognized as YM L your money or your life content and they were being outranked by people who clearly had expertise. So around that time um we had just gotten access to Google's quality raiders guidelines. I'm sure you're familiar with the Raiders guidelines that uh and they're not it's not like oh here this is Google's algorithm. It's really the guidelines of you know where they want the algorithms to go. >> Uh and um and so I started kind of studying these algorithms. Well, it turns out that that was the early start of Google um implementing much stronger uh use of their like it's not like eat was a one ranking factor or one signal um but it was something that uh they could factor in to their decisions. And then it was a year later when we had it was August 2018 uh the medic update called medic but really it was your money or your life. uh and and what I started to see happen in February of 2017 really really got amplified in mid 2018. And it turns out now in hindsight all of that happened. This is my opinion. I can't I don't I can't like point to something from Google to say this, but this is when Google said they started going AI first when none of us really were talking about AI. None of us knew what AI was. And if you look back, you can see that little bit by bit in 2015, Google uh started uh they told us about rankbrain, which is like AI for ranking. Um and responsible for so much and I see very few SEOs talking about this. Um and so that's when uh Google started to really use AI in their algorithms. Not like it's not like they just flipped a switch and all of a sudden everything was AI. Since that point from 2017 on we've been seeing bit by bit every update that we have uh in my opinion is related to Google putting more emphasis on what they can do with AI to determine what sites are going to satisfy a user um and less and less on the traditional ranking factors. And so a lot of what this is like my biggest peeve about SEO today is that uh a lot of what we do in the name of SEO is trying to rank for these like old systems that don't even exist anymore. Um when essentially it's just AI uh that that determines you know uh just like chatbt makes a prediction on what word to say next. Like if I say the cat sat on the chatbt or Gemini is going to say Matt, right? because it like has seen those words so many times, it predicts that. Well, Google's ranking systems predict what a searcher is going to find helpful. And then even more importantly is that um they use a whole mass of signals, most of which uh involve user engagement to determine like did the user get satisfied by what they put in front of the user and if so then that fine-tunes the system to say, "Oh, that was that was good. you you did a good result there. So really, you know, when Google came out with the documentation on helpful content >> and everybody's like, "Oh, that's, you know, just Google PR speak or whatever." Well, legitimately that's the type of content that people like, like original research, um content that demonstrates experience, expertise, and um and so if you produce things that people like and find satisfying, then you're training the AI systems to say, "Yeah, like we when we put that in front of people, we you actually did a good job at satisfying them, so we should do that again." Anyways, I'm kind of kind of rambling on, but um but I think all of that started in 2017 and uh a month after that February update, we had something that I think Barry Schwarz and Gary named Fred. I don't know if you remember, Fred was like the like it was just a silly facious, oh, every update now we're going to call Fred. And um uh it turns out that that was really in my opinion when AI started to uh to take the lead in terms of ranking things. >> H interesting. Okay. Um yes, I I think most SEOs at this point are aware that user signals are super important. Like you have to make sure that people have a good experience and you said that Google has even made that clear in their documentation. But has that always been the case like throughout Google's history? Was it user signals are super important or was it kind of more links and other stuff? >> Yeah, it's a good that's an excellent question. There's um so you've heard of Nav Boost. Have you heard of Nav Boost? >> Nav Boost has been around since before AI. Nav Boost is essentially just a table of user signals. A lot of people don't realize that every single search that you do on Google, Google stores the the search query and they store the actions of the users. So some of the nav boost signals when there was the um the the leak of uh attributes that came out uh a couple years ago, we saw some of the nav boost signals include um clicks like so did people click on your result? uh long clicks, did they stay on your result or did they go back to the search results and click on another? And then another was the longest last click, meaning like you that there's a pretty good chance that you satisfied that search, but it's not direct because I might click on something and then not go back to the search results because I went and fed my cat. Like it doesn't necessarily mean that that result satisfied me. So Google's been storing those signals for a long long time like you know before there was AI. Then um more recently uh with the advent of AI uh they've been learning how to use those signals and that was a part of what the helpful content system was. >> The helpful content system was using the signals available. A lot of them are user signals but not all. Um, but really like if I had to ask you uh to come up with a rubric of like which website satisfies is more likely to satisfy the user and you had access to user signals like what's more important that it has links pointing to it or that there were signals showing that the user was satisfied? Clearly it's the latter, right? And because it was like it took so helpful content update happened in August of 2022 and then in March of 24 they completely removed that system and incorporated helpful content signals into the core algorithms. So they took what they learned uh from that AI system and now it's just a part of the core systems. So when I talk about user signals, there have been people for many years that have manipulated click-through rate and uh some people succeed with it. However, most of the time that success is short-lived. And let me let me explain why. when you uh when somebody does a search and Google shows a list of results, each of those results, Google has a prediction on how likely the user is to click on it, you know, and so we know that like if you're ranking number one, there's much higher chance that somebody's going to click on that. If you're number three, it's going to be like a a lower chance. Um if you start to outperform that uh prediction, then that can change the rankings. So, and this is what happens with a form of nav boost that's called glue, instant glue. And it happens for current events. And this was in the uh uh the DOJ versus Google uh testimonies. There's a testimony by uh a man named Douglas Or. I would highly recommend if you can't find it, reach out to me. I'll get you the link. It's it's difficult to find. Um, he talks about how if you were searching for nice pictures, you probably want like images of art or, you know, Photoshop or whatever, right? Uh, maybe today AI. Um, and uh, although people might argue with that, well, that's a whole other conversation. But then let's say there's a big um, a terrorist event in Nice, France, and people start searching for NIC pictures. They don't want Photoshop and nice art. They want to know what's happening at that event, right? So, the way that Google's systems pick it up is by determining like, wow, when people search for this, the result they're clicking on is the one from Nice, France, not the one that has nice pictures. >> So, that is one way that you that Google can learn from user clicks. So, it's only natural to think, okay, well, then I'm going to go hire a company that does click-through manipulation and get uh, you know, a whole bunch of people to click on my result, and then I'm going to show Google systems that I rank number one. The problem is you don't take into account user satisfaction. So, we don't know how Google determines whether a searcher's been satisfied. There's been all this um speculation that perhaps they use Chrome. And it turns out like there was one little thing that I found in the DOJ versus Google trial that does uh indicate that Chrome to some extent is the signals from Chrome are used. So this is my thought, not something that I can prove. Um if you're an e-commerce store, what matters more in rankings that you have links pointing to you or that a lot of people buy from you? Like clearly, you know, 2014, Google sent out an email to everybody who had search console and said, "Don't hide your JavaScript from us anymore." Because people used to do that because Google couldn't crawl JavaScript. And um I really think it's because they wanted to see the actions. They wanted to see that users were filling out your forms, that they were buying your products, that so whatever that again, that's my theory. Um, but it's one thing to get users to click on your site, but it's not enough to just have clicks. There have to be other signals that really indicate that users have been satisfied. And then Google also has an AI system called spam brain, which is designed to find patterns that are consistent with manipulation. So, you know, some people again can succeed with click-through manipulation for a period of time. Once you get your site labeled as uh a spam site, every site in Google's algorithms has um a spam score. This was in the DOJ versus Google documents, not something I'm making up. >> And so, uh we don't know exactly what goes into that score, but it makes sense to me that um if there are patterns of users using your site that don't really uh line up, um that that can contribute to your spam score. So long answer but yes user signals have been measured by Google for a long time have been incorporated into their systems. There's also another good thing to find is um uh a presentation by Google called life of a click and uh it was 2016 so before we saw all sorts of AI and um they talk about how Google doesn't actually understand web pages. I think that's changed now in the day of AI um to some degree, but they used to really learn from what people click on and uh you know the clicks of users would tell Google systems whether they were doing a good job at putting things in front of people. And I'll just say one other thing on this because as soon as I say this, people are like, well, what about like new content that doesn't has never, you know, had a click. I I I want to say two things about that. And one is that this is part of the reason why it's important to have an audience outside of search. Uh I think that um a legitimate business that is uh you know, not just a site you spun up for, uh affiliate sales. Uh you're going to have email clicks. You're going to have uh you know, maybe if you're local, you're going to have local people that are trying to find your business. like you you you will have clicks that come from places other than search to give Google some signals that oh people actually are finding this helpful and legitimate. And then the other thing to know is that this whole system and this is really confusing. It learns from every interaction it has. So let's say I walk out of my house and I go down to the street and I go to cross the road and I almost get hit by a car. I've learned, okay, I need to look both ways before I cross the street, but not just my street. I learned and I learned something for every street that I >> Yeah. >> So, these systems are so complex that they're continually learning on improving the performance that they they do in in satisfying users. So, it's not just direct clicks to your site like, oh, if I can get more people to click, then I'm going to rank better. Really, it comes down to creating what is truly helpful and satisfying for people, which is very hard because when you see some people succeeding with black hat tactics, it's it's very tempting to be like, okay, I want to do those things, you know. Um, but if you want to succeed long term, it really means having being the best choice for people. >> Yeah. No, I've I've always personally been scared of doing black hat stuff just because kind of like what you were mentioning, but you were mentioning it in a much much more sophisticated and technical way that Google has progressed and advanced so much recently that they have all this data. It's it's training upon itself. So me with like my agency, I can't risk my clients businesses. I can't have them lose >> 30% of wherever they're getting their leads from, maybe their website or Google business profile. So, wow. Okay, that's really interesting. So, Google is collecting all the data from basically the history of search, maybe the past 10 years or so, and now they're looking at that and it was I guess that would give kind of an advantage to companies that have existed for 10 years or so. Yeah, >> that's that was the main thing about the trial was that Google has such an unfair advantage. Um, and it's very interesting if you read the Douglas or testimony is one. Uh, then Pandu Nyak testimony is so fascinating. Um, but if you read the summary judgement of the the trial, it's mostly about that that Google has created a monopoly. Um, and then Google argues, well, we have a monopoly because we're the best. Uh and so the the DOJ um there some of the summary or the um the judgment the decision by the judge is that they need to share some of the user data uh with um like anonymized but with competitors which is interesting. I think Google will fight that in court. Uh but yes, I I think and that changes how you do SEO when you realize that like every single action of the user, they're even monitoring um when you're on desktop and you do a Google result, they're monitoring what you hover over. Like you, you know, you're looking at an image and and they're monitoring that you're you're hovering over that image and they're trying to figure out like did the SER actually satisfy you? and they're looking at um so the quality raers I mentioned the quality raider guidelines those raiders are rating um the top five results whether they are websites or SER features whether it's a maps pack that's why sometimes when you do a query you'll see a maps pack and sometimes you won't and it's because the system has predicted that oh this actually is going to be more helpful to people uh and then they it learns by you know whether people actually went on to be satisfied by the maps pack or maybe for some queries that used to show uh local results uh now they're showing organic results and that's because they're they're they're learning from what people actually clicked on and went on to find helpful. >> So fascinating. Now you you put that in a really succinct really easy to understand way. So I appreciate that. And um you've mentioned the quality raider guidelines several times. I've read through these or at least I I think I got Isn't it like 150 pages or so? >> It's like Yeah. 170 180 or so now. >> Yeah. Yeah. Okay. So, I I think I got through at least half of it, but but for people that don't know what it is and don't know why it's important, can you explain it? >> Sure. So, um it's funny because it used to be something that was a secret and at one time the guidelines leaked out and like all the SEOs were like, "Oh, look at this." And I actually bought the domain name leaked quality raider guidelines to host it and then Google started sending notices to everybody who had published like it was a big secret. Um and then at some point I think it was around 2017 Google was like well why not like what's the worst that happens? People produce highquality websites that are more likely to rank. Well that's a win-win right? So the guidelines are written for these people called quality raers. And it's really important to understand how these people work. Um, at one point Google put out documentation to say there were it was either 14,000 or 16,000 people that they uh they they don't directly employ them. They contract out all of these people. And your job as a quality raider, you're going to be given two sets of results. Well, this is the search results as they exist today and this is a proposed change. Now, the way that we first understood the guidelines was like, let's say I'm a Google engineer and I've decided on this new algorithm that's going to reduce spam. And so you you might put that new algorithm into the results and that's the, you know, the the right hand side that the quality raers see. And then the raiders look um they they rate like is this side better or is this side better? They have to have some guidelines to go by in order to make that decision. And that's why uh you actually to become a raider you have to take a test and you have to show that you've studied these guidelines. Um here's the interesting part though. I never understood like 16 or 14,000 people for like a couple of engineers making changes seems like a lot right then when we started realizing uh and this is in the Douglas or testimony that AI is actually the one that's making those changes. So, you know, Google does all of these predictions on what to rank and then the weights of uh the AI decisions are changed by the system itself. If we just let that run rampant, there would be all sorts of opportunity for manipulation. So, let's say, you know, somehow we figure out how to reverse engineer some component AI component of ranking um and get spam ranking. Well, when the quality raiders see that spam in their results, they're going to say, "No, this isn't this isn't a good, helpful result, and that helps to fine-tune the AI systems." Um, so two things fine-tune the systems. One is the the quality raider rankings, um, and then the other is the actions of users. But it's really important to know that, um, if a quality raider visits your site, and they probably have, you can look in analytics and look for your referrals. uh h I don't I can't remember what you have to look for now, but you you can see them in there um that they've visited your site, but it means nothing because it doesn't impact your rankings. Uh it just is an overall um judgment of whether that SER was helpful or not and whether the algorithm that produced that search result uh was the better choice or not. So the the rankings or the the guidelines, they're really interesting to read, especially the bits on um eat and eat is not like an algorithmic thing uh that we can go, oh, you need to have an author bio, you need to have this, you need to have that. It's an overall understanding of all of the signals that exist uh to indicate whether you're likely to be seen as legitimate, as trustworthy for that query. That's why like medical queries are going to need more EAT than um you know justformational you know I'm writing a site about poetry or something right um so eat is really important and then there's a whole section on what's considered high quality versus lowquality >> and every time Google updates these guidelines it happens once or twice a year I'm realizing I haven't checked them in a few weeks so like I almost almost every week I check and I see did it update and when it updates It's really interesting to see what changed because then you know that that's something that Google's working towards and they want the raiders to pay more attention to this type of thing. So for example in uh I think it was 2022 Google added all sorts of stuff about real world experience to the guidelines >> and then in in an algorithm update following that often it's like maybe two updates core updates after the change has been made in the Raider guidelines. Uh, sure enough, when I'm looking at queries that did well versus uh after an update versus queries that didn't, um, the pages that uh, are ranking better are ones that have experience. And so, like you you can really see that they're just trying to train the systems and then the systems are fine-tuned by uh, the quality raers saying whether or not they did well. >> So, it's it's a fascinating system. Now eventually uh and there's Don Anderson wrote a really good article a couple years ago on search engine land about this uh there's a good chance that AI will replace a lot of those quality raiders that they're actually finding that they can create AI systems that do a better job at the human raiders uh than determining whether the new results are better or not. Um so that's kind of interesting where we're heading. >> Okay. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Let's let's dive into EAT which was originally EAT and and you mentioned you know the extra E for experience just talk to me all about EAT like what exactly is it and why is that important? >> Sure. So there there's a lot of misconceptions about EAT and I I think I might have driven some of them um because I had that case that I told you about in 2017 where uh they were outranked by sites with medical expertise. We went out and um well we they took my advice and hired doctors and they added medical author bios to like they said you know this was written by or uh verified by Dr. or so and so. Um, and they legitimately did. They made these connections with doctors. And so I talked a lot about this case. And then of course, everybody who wants to gain a leg up is like making up author bios. And it wasn't about the author bio. It was about the level of expertise that really was exhibited. Like even their content improved because they had actual doctors as opposed to content writers that were writing it. Um, there is a a very short video. It was a clip from um SMX. Barry Schwarz interviewed um HJ oh gosh, his name is uh eluding me right now, but uh somebody from Google who's an engineer who's worked there for um quite some time. And he said that every single query is evaluated through a filter of EAT. Now, EAT, again, that doesn't mean that it's like you, you know, a score that you're like, "Oh, you have this great EAT score." What it is, the way that I understand it is the world's conception of you. So, if I said to you like, "Where's a good place to get pizza near you?" All like some places just jumped into your head, right? And it's because of what they're known for. like, "Oh, this place is known for having excellent crust. This place is known for being really good price. Like, this place has amazing delivery." The things that you're known for are your eat. So, how do you improve your eat? Well, right now, I'll tell you a really interesting story. I had not done any podcast interviews for a while and then I did one with uh somebody else and they labeled it as Marie Haynes SEO and AI expert uh talks about whatever the very next day if you searched for SEO and AI expert and sometimes SEO expert I was ranked number one >> I didn't do any link building for that they didn't even link I don't know if they linked to my site but I don't think it was the link I think it was that here's an authoritative voice that is saying that I am an expert. EAT is what others say about you, not necessarily links. So, if you wanted to be known like what you're doing right now in interviewing uh people who understand SEO or understand marketing, um you're making an association uh between you and that person. Yeah, >> if you wrote for search engine land for search engine journal um you know all of a sudden there's uh there's knowledge out there that says all right Danny is associated uh you know respected enough to be published on these uh places and then that makes a connection between you and and the topic of SEO or marketing. So, eat a lot of it is like it can be PR, but it's we need to not fall into the trap of thinking that it's links. Um, like links kind of come out of eat. Uh, you know, if if you when you publish this, I'm hoping you'll link to my site, but I don't even care if you do, you know, like because uh you've put evidence into the world to say like, okay, this person knew enough about this topic for me to have her on my podcast. So eat is mostly what others say about you and then there's also the element of trustworthiness which is still what people say about you too. So, um I'm working with a site right now that has really struggled after core updates and uh and it turns out that they have uh serious reputation issues uh and they've had issues with um returns and refunds and that is a big component of trust and so um you know that can be turned around. I've seen companies turn it around but it's not an SEO issue. It's an entire business issue. Um, and so EIT really is, and especially in the age of AI, there's ways that you can game language models right now, but like they'll they're getting better and better. And essentially, when you ask something of a language model, they're going by all of the knowledge that's in their knowledge base of like who is recognized as the best on this topic. >> So that's that's basically eat. The other last thing I'll say about eat is content can contribute to it. If you're putting out new content, so when I when I write something, I'm not writing it for keywords. I'm not writing it um you know so that I can potentially rank for something. I'm adding to the body of knowledge that exists on my topic. And so if you get known as somebody who can improve the body of knowledge on your topic, uh then that contributes to eat as well. >> Definitely. No. and you you nailed it on the the podcast thing. That's a big part of why I do this is that now I get to be publicly associated with all these top experts like you. So now if there's almost like you could say like a body of knowledge of or a I guess a consensus around the web that oh well Danny's with a hundred of the top SEO experts and it's not just because I you also know that there's tons of levels of association. It could just be as simple as maybe we are connected on LinkedIn, but if we do like a podcast together or even what I've done with my business partners to be an authority in pest control is I've co-authored a book with them and I've made a lot of content with them and it's like well now if and also I think something to to really hit on I'd like you to talk about this >> and I've kind of come full circle on this >> coming from an SEO perspective first is that the algorithm and Google and even chatb and these other platforms are all optimizing for the user. They want to give us the best results. So that's where EAT and all these things come from is they want like people want to listen to others that have experience and have expertise and are authoritative and are trustworthy. So not only do I like even if I didn't get any SEO benefit from releasing a book, people would still trust me more and see me as more authoritative and would want to listen to me because I have the book. But now you almost get the the double amplifier from the SEO benefit too. >> I got a challenge for everybody who's listening to this podcast. So I made myself a challenge that I was going to write and figure out how to publish on Amazon a book in one day. I know that seems ludicrous like you can't write a whole book in one day. Um this was when Bard just came out that the precursor to Gemini. And so I had a bunch of stuff I'd already written on like prompts and how to how to learn. And I actually used Bard to help me write like 10 things you can do to uh to improve your use of Bard. And then um and then I used Bard to help me figure out and it would be much better today because Gemini is so much better than than Bard. Uh it helped me figure out how do I get this published on Amazon? uh you know as a and you can actually like do it where people can order it as a physical book. Um I think I've sold like maybe 10 copies not that many but then I wrote one of the first books on uh talking to language models. So um that you're right like just being out there having written and published a book you don't necessarily need to do it in one day but I would say make it a challenge like maybe one month that you and and now the temptation is going to be to use AI when I say I used Bard I used Bard to augment me like I would write something and go how can I make this shorter or like does this make sense you know um and I I none of us really like reading directly AI I written content. Uh but using AI to augment your thoughts and to improve upon what you've already done is is totally acceptable. So I I would say if you're trying to build EAT, like write a book on your subject, whatever you're whatever the topic is that you're trying to to be known for and um and that contributes to your eat. You don't have to sell millions of copies. Just have it out there, you know. >> Yeah, >> definitely. Um, I wanted to ask from the the local business perspective since this is local marketing secrets. So, we were talking about building those strong associations like even I have with this podcast or other things I've done and you've done. How can a local business approach that then? How can they build those necessary associations to build up their entity and eat? So a few ways I I think a lot of people are still having success with content today. Um and I think there's a we need to be careful not to fall into a trap uh because a lot of uh businesses are just producing cont like as much content as they can on their topics um to produce topical authority and there was a day where like I think that that worked really well. But now Google's got all that content and if you publish content that is essentially the same as what everybody else has already published, you're sending signals to say that your your site is not that important. But if you can publish original content, original content might be original research. Um, and it doesn't have to be like, you don't have to spend tens of thousands of dollars to, you know, coordinate a research project. Just send a survey out to your customers and then publish something that says, you know, 90% of people uh using pest control have these concerns. Like like there's it's not that difficult to do, you know, to publish something new. So content is one way. Um, the other way is like traditional PR. If if search engines didn't exist, what would you do to get your business known? Like, how would you get known? Um, that might involve things like uh even if you're like on the radio or if you're um in the news about things, it's really hard to do that. But if you So I I had one uh client years ago who was in real estate and um there was a like a tragedy in their town where the a school's music room burned down. And so I was like, why don't we do something good for that school? And he uh volunteered to um we put out a thing on his website saying like, if you have an instrument you want to donate, uh this person will go and get it and bring it to the school. and we had an arrangement with the school to do it, right? And like that sounds like a lot of work, but we got like good press for that. And every time um we sent out so we sent out press releases uh not for the links in the press release. Um although we did say uh fill out the form here on our website, you know, and so we had a ton of people mentioning uh this this realtor in a really good light, you know. So do good things for your community is a is a good thing. I know like that's hard as an SEO though, right? Like and this is why you know it's it's difficult. Um I think that uh going on podcasts is something that can be good. Um and then I really think like anything that puts your name in a good light. Um reviews are really important. Now I mentioned to you before I don't do local SEOs. So, I'm talking in general about like improving your eat uh and uh so like there's local ranking factors that uh I have thoughts on, but it's not what I do professionally. Um but I think that uh being truly being the best business uh in your town is is what is like the biggest thing that matters. uh which is not like which is why it's very difficult to do SEO these days because historically if I knew how links work how how to do good keyword research how to structure pages properly like that's what made sites rank but now that AI uh you know determines what's likely to satisfy users it's not so much that you know it's it's it's many other signals alto together >> so I don't have a solid answer for you other than like be the best business for people to choose. >> Yeah. No, that was a good answer and I've I've seen that work well and I generally prescribe that too that >> doing PR in the area and then amplifying that, you know, so maybe you sponsor the local baseball team or maybe you pay a certain charity and now you can post about that organically. You can boost that. You can go on the news and talk about it. It's just like do something good and then you can go on podcasts and go on other things and then talk about that that thing that you did. the radar guidelines talk about awards as well. I don't think it's a direct factor in Google's ranking uh factors but or ranking algorithms but I do think that if you you know your business wins awards that's something that can contribute and I would I would have you know a page on your business to say like press about us or uh awards that we've won. I think that that's another idea as well. >> Okay, cool. Um, also you to kind of pivot here, you recent recently released a book called SEO in the Gemini Era. >> Tell me about that book. What are kind of the key takeaways? What do people need to know? >> So, it's mostly talking about what we just talked about, how AI has uh reshaped how Google's ranking algorithms work and um uh there's a lot in there in terms of understanding user intent and and meeting user intent and your content um and how user signals mean so much. Uh and then as I was writing that, we started to see uh AI actually in the search results. So AI overviews and then eventually AI mode. There's not very much in the book about that, which is funny because most people probably would think about, you know, AI overviews when you're uh when you're talking about that, but the Gemini era. So um Gemini radically changed Google's ability to to do things. not just Gemini, but their AI progress. Um, last night I we watched uh there's a new documentary out on Deep Mind and on Demis Abbas. >> I I saw that. I put that in my watch later. >> It's like it'll make you question. Well, it made me question like what is our purpose when like AI there's so much you'll see in the in the media there's so much to be frightened about you know like our jobs going to be lost are like many many different uh things that we could be frightened about but AI has the potential to do so much good and in this documentary they're talking about um alpha fold where uh they've used AI to fold proteins and they can essentially like they're on the way to being able to create medicine for almost any disease condition in the body. Um, and I actually like legitimately think that we will have an era, maybe it's not in our lifetime, but we'll have an era where like people are not sick. >> Uh, and like that's kind of wild, right? Um, and I think that uh I do believe that we're headed towards a future of prosperity. Most people I know uh argue with me on that, understandably, but and maybe I'm just trying to be optimistic. uh overly optimistic, but I actually think we're headed towards a world where we can optimize so much um of the trouble in the world and improve upon it. And then because that's how AI works is it's continually learning, we will just continually get better and better at making the world a better place. and and sure there will be people who try to use AI for bad, but there's far more people, especially people high up in AI, uh, that are trying to make the world a better place with it. So, uh, I I I I think that there's great future ahead, um, at the hands of AI. >> No, I'm I'm right there with you. I I don't know if I'm biased because I'm an optimist, but like you said, I think sickness will almost be eradicated. There will probably be some kind of UBI where people won't be poor. They won't have to go on food stamps. They won't have to worry about eating or probably shelter. Um I am worried about people finding me meaning and purpose. It seems like people are taking their lives more than ever, depressed, anxious, all of that stuff. So I I think that's really going to be the main concern is how can we come together as humans and also realize this world where >> you know I wouldn't say we're not as special as we think but just like our lives aren't revolved around working and making that our sole purpose. >> Isn't it crazy how much time we put into work? Like you get up in the morning, you get ready for work. I don't know about you, but me, I I work all I mean, I love my work, >> but also the time that we have between work and going to bed is like a tiny portion of the day, you know? >> And um I don't know that we're meant to be that way. >> I don't know though, like I hear Elon Musk and others say that we'll live a life where like we don't have to work. Sam Alman says the same thing, you know, and and we'll find meaning in other things because humans always like to help other humans. But I find that as I'm learning to do more with AI, I just do more, you know? I'm like, "Oh, AI made that task that used to take me a week. Now I can do it in an hour. So now I can do 10 tasks in a week." So, uh, so I don't know. I I think we're always going to be busy, at least for the foreseeable future. Um, I do worry. I think so much about our society is broken. I think our money system is broken. And like I know very few people who are doing well and you know it it uh almost like in I don't know if where you are but in Canada uh like the price of everything is skyrocketing and and I know so many people that are are really really struggling. I do worry that while I see a future of abundance, I think the path to get there is going to be very rocky. And I think that we're going to see um very soon Google's going to come out with the new version of Google Glasses. Uh have you seen these these uh >> Oh, I I saw the presentation. I I think there's like a malfunction during it, though. Or that might I think the metal one. >> Yeah. Yeah. And that's what see that's isn't that funny that that's what you'd remember from it. But like and it's technology that's developing. Um so I got to try the Gemini glasses and uh they put them on me and they said do you see the time and the weather >> and I was like what are you talking about? And then I focused my eyes down to the bottom right corner and clear as day there's like there was the time and the weather and uh and then I went into a room with a bunch of art and I was able to like tap the side of my glasses and ask about the art and ask all these questions. And it might seem like something that doesn't really like like it's just a toy or whatever. I actually really think that we'll reach an age where we don't use our phones for most things. Um, Amazon just released uh a new product for their drivers where from the delivery from the warehouse to the person's house, they don't need to touch their phone at all. Like the glasses tell them uh the address, they uh take a picture once the package is on the ground. Like everything is in their glasses. So, the reason why I'm saying this is that I think that um I mean it was bad enough when Google Glasses first came out. like if you wore them, you were not wellreceived in society. And when I was at Google IO, uh I was talking to somebody doing a demo and I noticed he had like a little like thing in his glasses and I was like, "You're wearing AI glasses." And immediately I felt this like visceral I didn't I didn't like it. Uh because who knows like is he recording me? Is like is he getting information about me? Like who knows, right? So, we're going to go through this time where people will absolutely hate AI and anybody who promotes AI, it's already happening that uh there's this divide. Like if you're excited about AI, you have a lot of enemies. Um and then I think that over time eventually AI will make the world a better place. Um and will make it a more equal place. Uh, and I I so I do have hope for the future, but I think that we're going to have a little bit of a rough road in getting there >> that, you know, some will, some will have lots, some will, some will have great success. We didn't even talk about agents. That's like my uh my number one thing uh that I'm interested in. Now, I think AI agents will give businesses uh huge advantages and will give individuals huge advantages. Um, and then others who don't use them, it'll be like trying to run a business without using the internet today. Like you could maybe do it, but uh you're going to have a lot of difficulty compared to those who have the technology. >> Okay. Yeah. No, let's let's dive into agents. So, where first off, let's start with where are agents at today? >> Yeah. I think they're still very primitive today. And I think there was um I don't know if you saw there was a McKenzie study that showed that 95% of businesses that are trying to implement AI agents are failing. I didn't like the study because it was based on 52 surveys. Like I don't think we can judge a whole uh industry uh based on that. But regardless, most people that are trying to uh do stuff with agents are not like really having tremendous success. Um but you can see that they keep improving. So recently Google released Gemini 3 and uh it's so much improved compared to the previous models. And then uh just a couple days later Claude um 4.5 Opus came out and it's improved. It's better than Gemini in some of the the benchmarks. And then Grock came out with a model that like well that was before Gemini but like all of these models are improving and improving. And so when I when we got on the call together I was like we can't start yet because I'm I'm building something and I need it to run. And I was using Google's new uh tool called anti-gravity. And uh mo a lot of the people watching this have probably heard of cursor. uh that is like you you can code things uh and then use AI to help you like you know write the code or to put things together and anti-gravity is like a step above it. It's hard to really grasp once you get into it and it and it works. uh it can produce anything like I'm I'm making this tool right now that helps me analyze uh which pages did well or poorly after an update and then it uses a bunch of agents which are essentially prompts and some of the prompts can use tools like Google search for example. Um but those agents each look at content in a different way and uh can assess like oh the strength you know this had original content this had fresh content and this one matched user intent in this way and then other agents uh analyze their output and come up with the patterns and then another set of agents gives us guidelines for creating uh new stuff on our website in the future um and then other agents I haven't built this part yet uh connect with search console and connect with uh Google Analytics and Google Analytics has all sorts of u information on user engagement and so if user engagement is what matters the most then if we can optimize for user engagement we should be able to like really improve right so I'm building this in anti-gravity without like I haven't touched a line of code and it's actually working like it's it now it might not be something that I you know sell as a SAS tool and make tons of money Um but the agents I already if if you use uh Google's got um uh a format called agent development kit uh it's it's Python that you can use to create these agents. And so I just said to anti-gravity use ADK uh format for for making these. >> And now I should be able to take those agents and put them on Google's agent marketplace. And so you could you might not buy a SAS tool from me, but you might buy use of my agents. And then um Google has something called the agent payments protocol which can negotiate payment between those agents. And so you can see where that's going, right? Is like if you find my agents useful, then you pay a few cents every time you use them. Um and uh and then my agents perhaps have an agreement with your agents that we learn what worked for you and then we continue to to do better and better, you know. So um so like you can see that we're headed towards this ecosystem. Uh but right now when I when I use anti-gravity 50% of the time it either crashes on me or I hit a quota limit. And so I'm so hindered by the tech. But that will get better. like it it will just continue to improve. So, um I would encourage anybody who's who's uh listening to this to start learning more about what agents are and to play around with trying to vibe code stuff. You don't necessarily need to use anti-gravity. Uh if you go to a studio.google.com, there's a little button on the top left called build and you can just describe what you want to build. You can build an entire website in there. Um, and it's pretty good. And then you can also deploy it from within there and like so it's functioning on the web. Uh, and so um, I I would just say agents are the way in, mark my word, in like a year or two that's all like people are going to be sick of hearing about agents. >> There's already some people building like agent workflows with I don't know if you've heard of N8N. Um, and there's like there's others like that. And I I think that those are good. Um but personally I want to my main reason for building agents is so that I understand Google's ecosystem of building agents. Uh because Google published a blog post that said that every enterprise will soon rely on multiple agents. And I think that this is just how the world is going to be. That um you know, we've already seen just recently Google um I don't know if you saw they released uh a price tracking feature where you can keep an eye on a product and uh >> Oh, I did see that. Yeah. >> Yeah. And then be like, "Oh, if the price comes down below this, then then go ahead and buy it for me." It'll ask your permission. You know, you get an a me either a text message or an email. It's like, "Hey, Marie, the price of this just came down to whatever. do you want me to go and buy it? And then your agent will go buy it. Your agent being Gemini in this case would go buy it for you. And I never went to visit that website. Like so I think that the web the way we know it. I think the web had to exist for like it's Google's been around for what 25 years or so. Um I think that we've been working for Google in populating content so that AI could learn. And now we're reaching another age where AI is not just learning stuff but doing stuff for us. And we're in the super early phases. And so most of the clients that I work with are really interested in building agents. Um but we're not actually doing anything just yet because I think that the tech is not quite there for us to do something that uh that we would put into the public and that would represent our brand. um you know but I do think that um uh the day is coming. I don't think I know it uh that it's it's coming. Uh and so anybody who and it's not too late. Like if you people when I give a talk like this people are like I'm so lost. I don't I'm so behind. I don't know you know anything about this stuff. One of the best ways to learn would be to take your favorite language model whether it's chatypt gemini claude whatever and ask it. I want to learn more about how AI agents work and just have a conversation uh with the language models. Ask for resources to read. Google's got an incredible group of guides on AI agents, how to use them, how to build them. Uh and uh and that's where the future is headed. >> Okay. Wow. Wow. That was awesome. Okay. So people definitely need to start trying to implement these tools because I know a lot of people especially maybe local business owners that are listening to this maybe they have just started to use chatbt. I I had to get my parents to start using chatbt and now they love it. A lot of people are still kind of skeptical. They're still using Google for a lot of their searches or for figuring things out but they need to start at least trying to use agents. And I think the the key there is that you can have chatbt or Gemini or whoever teach you how to use it and walk you through it. It's it it can almost hold your hand to to do anything you want. Like >> I I think a lot of the um issue with language models is that people use them as a search engine rather than as a tool. And uh the language models can improve your creativity. they can act as um something that augments your your skills already. And so um you know the concern is about hallucinations. Will they make things up? Um it's improved dramatically. And a lot of the time where there's a hallucination, it's because like people are trying to evoke the hallucinations. They're asking silly questions that nobody in real life would would ask. Um and so uh if something you you see something and you're like that doesn't really jive with me. It doesn't really make sense. then then ask for references and most of the language models now will provide excellent links. Um I don't know if you've used Notebook LM very much. It's a Google product that like it's it's so unknown but it's really really incredible. Uh and you can put in a topic and so say you want to learn about AI agents, put that topic in and it will find you references like 10 different references from the web. Um, and then, uh, if you want, you can ask it to make a podcast for you. And it's wild this podcast. Like, you would never believe that it's AI. Uh, and you can customize the podcast and say like, you know, uh, I'm new to coding or I, you know, here's where my expertise lies and I want a podcast that just gives me the basics. And, and you can learn stuff. You can learn pretty much anything, uh, if you're willing to give it a try. And yes, you might learn the odd thing that like is not accurate, you know, and we have to this is part of what's holding people back from using AI is this fear that they're going to be duped or something. Um, but I think that the people who know how to use AI will have such huge advantage over those who do not. So I' I'd highly recommend learning something about AI, whether it's agents, um, uh, visual search is something that I think is uh is really important. I think for for pest control is a very interesting area. I saw that one of the top um uses of chatbt amongst uh service professionals was for plumbers that they actually like use chatbt to to brainstorm ideas. Um but Google has and chatbt have uh Google has customer what's it called? customer experience suite, I think, where you can do like live video chat with the AI. Um, and there's all sorts of opportunities for uh I don't know. I just I think for pest control, it would be very interesting. I don't know how good AI is at identifying different types of pests and what to do about them. But uh if I was in pest control, I'd be trying to make some type of an app um that uses my knowledge base to answer questions for people. Uh, I think there's loads of opportunity there. >> Yeah. No, that's that's kind of where my head's been at of how can we utilize that and especially as it relates to something that's more physical where maybe for lawn care. So, someone has their glasses on their lawn. They're like, "Okay, what products do I need or what company services this kind of service best?" Not just overall lawn care, but this type of lawn care or pest control or whatever. And um kind of to not wrap up or yeah I guess to wrap up the show like the final topic I want to cover is >> the future of search which we have talked about but I want to get very clear and tactical on this. Is it that everyone is wearing glasses and they're talking to their agent through their glasses and >> well okay it depends on how far in the future we want to go. Like the next future of search is agents. forget glasses for now. Uh we'll go there in a second, >> but is definitely agents. So um AI mode uh has some agentic features. You can um in some places you can if you're searching for tickets for events. Uh AI mode will do the searching for you. It'll look at ticket master at StubHub at like all the places where you might buy um resale seats and then uh you have the conversation within AI mode and and then and then you say, "Oh yeah, I want these from ticket master." And then AI mode just goes and buys them for you and then you get the email in Gmail like I never actually went to ticket master's website. Right. >> So um so agents in AI mode are next. Uh Google announced last week, I don't see many people talking about this, that AI mode now can do, um something where they can create a new user interface on the fly. And so, uh the example that they gave was somebody asked a question about Vincent Van Gogh and then AI mode changed to be like the colors of his paintings and um and like was a whole different experience than a Google search page. like I think there's going to be changes that are hard to wrap our heads around. The next thing will be the use of browser agents and um uh this is really important for any business that relies on forms or like some type of user interaction from within your website because um one of the reasons why they've created these browser agents is to reduce the time a user needs to spend on menial stuff like nobody likes to fill out a form. So if I can send my agent which would be Gemini or ChatBT within Gemini within Chrome is happening. I think some areas of the US have it. I I I don't have it in Canada but um where you can be on a web page and just click Gemini and say fill out this form for me. Uh but then there will be other things that can be done. So like let's say I have I finished creating my SEO agents. you might be on my website, maybe I wrote an article about how to diagnose like the latest core update, like how to recover from it or or whatever. Um, and then maybe a popup comes up that says, "Do you want to use my AI agent?" And then you have start having a conversation within the browser uh with an agent that I've trained. And once you get to a certain point, uh, you know, I can use that to potentially generate leads if I wanted to. You see what I'm saying? like it's we're going to have a different way where search the search results aren't really going to matter so much. >> Um, did you see that Adobe bought Semrush? >> Yeah. >> Yeah. What do you think that's about? >> Oh, you would know better than me. I think to get access to all of their data, but what do you think? >> Okay, so everybody's like, "Oh, Adobe bought Samrush. That means SEO is not dead." Like they, you know, they spent what was it? 1.9 billion on this company on an SEO tracking uh reporting company. >> Um it's funny because just the day before that I had an email from Adobe uh talking about some type of partnership. I think they just want to give me access to Firefly and then I write about it in newsletter or something. But uh so I started researching Adobe. Adobe has all of these um AI agents. They have a workflow and some of the agents optimize your website and learn from those optimizations. And some of the agents are customer service facing agents uh that take all of your website and your brand information and use that to have conversations with your customers. And then some of them like they have other a whole suite of agents. So, this is like the next phase, which I think will happen over the next couple of years is that's where we're going to see search go. Um, in terms of glasses, I don't know. Like, it's hard for me to grasp that I wouldn't be doing this. Like, I I would have a really hard time just sitting here with glasses on and seeing you as a hologram. Like, I don't I think that that could happen, but I think we're still going to have screens for quite some time. Um, but I think that just like when phones came, when mobile phones came, we didn't stop using our computers. We just had another screen that we could look at. So, I think glasses will open up all sorts of new opportunities. And again, like for service businesses, I'm really excited about that because uh I don't know how yet we take advantage of it, but there will be opportunities there. So, I would say just like keep paying attention to what's happening with glasses and then opportunities will arise. I'm giving a talk next week to a bunch of vacation rental managers and uh I can just picture you know you got your glasses on and take me through a virtual tour of uh of your place or when I get there like actually give me a tour of the place with the with the glasses on. Like there's going to be lots of opportunities there. Um and then the next thing that I always talk about and I always like Marie don't go there but I'm going to go there is uh uh we will get to the place where uh we have some type of brain computer interface. >> I know it seems like science fiction. >> You've probably seen uh Neuralink, one of Elon's companies and they have a small group of people. It's all people with um like spinal cord injuries or like they they can't function and they've implanted u a brain implant. And what the brain implant does is they the first recipient they put him in front of a computer and they said make the cursor move up and he thought about moving up and then they were able to read the pattern of neurons that like connected to up for him and and now some of the neural link uh recipients can play Call of Duty with their brains. Like that's wild, right? So whenever I'm at a conference, I always ask like who here would, assuming it was safe, would get a brain computer interface. The first time I asked it, one guy put his hand up. Uh the last time I asked it, there was like maybe 20 people in the room who were like, "Yeah, I would get it." I absolutely would because it will give you such huge advantage. Like every piece of knowledge that's in the world you could just bring to bring to your mind at any time. There's negatives too that would come. I don't know that everybody will need to have surgery to have a brain interface. I think that lots of people are working on other ways to um uh to to connect with our devices like via even facial movements or um we've seen Meta has a wristband that can determine your like you just look like you're writing your name and then it'll write, you know. Um, but that will be like I do think that we lived in this little sliver of history where we used uh plastic keys on a keyboard to communicate our thoughts in our head. Like that that will end at some point. I don't think that's going to be like we're looking a decade out uh or maybe more before that happens. But that's kind of like the far future. That's not even that far. A decade. Um, and then the other thing, did you know if you search for search engine on Google, you don't see Google? >> Honestly, yeah, search engines, search engines, and it's always been that way. And Google, I don't think their intent has ever been to be a search engine. I think it's a step along the road. Um, there's a recent blog post by Deis Sabis, CEO of Deep Mind, like really the mind behind the AI in in Gemini, and he talks about Google's goal is actually to be your personal assistant. And he talks in there about robots, uh, and about how some of Google's 3D worlds that they're creating, virtual 3D worlds, will be training grounds for robots. So um that is again not going to happen next year but we will at some point have whether it's Google whether it's Optimus robots figure robots I don't know but we'll have robots in our homes uh that do many of the things for us of which search is a component. So that's uh kind of the long-term view of where I I think things are headed. Um but for now I think I think that we need to really get out of the mindset of search being something we can manipulate with a knowledge of search and rather like search being an algorithm that's putting the best choices in front of people. Um, and so our our goals as professionals that advise businesses on what to do, is to like advise them on best business practices, which is like not SEO, but uh on on just really being the satisfying choice for users and then uh also measuring that um you know, not looking at keyword rankings, but looking at um did we like could we maybe increase user time on site or how many people filled out our form or how many conversions we got. Um, I think that that's far more important than looking at keyword rankings. >> Marie, I think the minds of my audience have been blown. I I think this has been an incredible episode. I really appreciate your time here. Um, I I've personally learned so much from you throughout watching all of your stuff, reading all of your stuff, and even just the show here. And um, to wrap it up, I've got one final question for you, and that would be, what is your message to the audience? What do you want to tell people? What is your advice? What What do they need to know? >> I I would really work to find joy in the time that we're in because there's so much negativity and there's so much fear because we're going through change, right? Like Sandra Pachai said that uh AI is more profound for civilization than fire or electricity. And I believe him. I think we're still in the very early phases. It's hard to believe when you might get an AI overview that like doesn't know what today's date is or something like how could that radically change our society. But and I and there's a real um I see on social media there's like it seems to be so many people complaining about like AI can't do this or oh some idiot tried to use AI and this is what happened. But like you'll get much more value from technology in the future if you find the ways to use it and uh to use it to make you better. So um I would just encourage everyone to spend time every day with a language model. Your goal is not to like go off and make money with it. It's to become like to develop the skill of communicating with AI. Uh because that's where we're headed in the future. Like I don't I don't think we're going to go back. like I don't think we're going to uh have a future where people decide, oh yeah, it was bad. We're not going to do that. Um so if you can learn to enjoy using AI, life will be a lot easier. >> Awesome. So you have to start trying out these models if you haven't already. Start experimenting with agents. Start learning from people like Marie. I'd highly recommend all the stuff she does. That actually parlays to the the last thing I want to mention here. Uh Marie, how can people get in touch with you? follow you, all the stuff that you have out there. >> Yeah. So, uh my newsletter is probably the best place to start. So, mariehanes.com/newsletter and um and then I also have a community. Uh there's a free area where like I I spend my entire day uh learning about AI. That's the majority of my job now is learning and then sharing it. So, um, community.mmariehanes.com and, uh, there's a paid area in the community, too, for a small group of us who are really trying to to learn how to, um, build things with AI and, uh, and and, uh, and make a difference in the world. So, uh, there's that as well. Um, I am on X and on LinkedIn as well. I'm pretty easy to find. And, um, and then you can reach me at helpmariehanes.com. Uh, I do have just a small handful of of clients uh that I take on. Um, and I can't always answer questions. I get I get a lot of emails. I got to build an agent to do uh to do that perhaps. >> Yeah. >> But yeah, I'm around. I'm usually pretty easy to find. >> Cool. So, make sure to go join her newsletter, her free group, follow her on um Twitter and or I guess X and LinkedIn. And um all those links will be in the description. And anything else you'd like to plug or promote, Marie? >> I think that's good. I I'm uh you know, stay tuned for I might produce that tool. We'll see. But uh but uh but yeah, no, I'm I'm uh I think um newsletter is the place to go. >> Cool. Awesome. Yeah. No, I'd love to I'd love to see you release your own SAS. I've got several in mind for myself and I I feel like that's just kind of the move where everyone's going and um yeah, so I I think a lot of people would would buy whatever you put out. >> We'll see. >> Yeah. Yeah, thanks for having me. >> Well, thank you so much. Yeah, thank you again for coming on, Marie. This has been a blast. I really appreciate your time. >> Okay, take care. >> You too. >> Hey guys, Danny Leebrand here. Hope you enjoyed this episode of Local Marketing Secrets. And if you did, make sure to like and subscribe. Also, let me know your thoughts in the comments below. If you have any key takeaways, questions, or guest recommendations, I'd love to hear them. Finally, if you're listening on podcast platforms like Spotify or Apple, please leave us a review and tell me what you think there. All right, that's all I've got for you guys. Thanks for watching and I'll see you in the next one.